Manage certificates on OpenShift running on IBM Z®, IBM Power® and ARM64 architectures (#2)
chiragkyal/redhat-blogs: cert-manager-multi-arch.md

- [Manage certificates on OpenShift running on IBM Z®, IBM Power® and ARM64 architectures.](#manage-certificates-on-openshift-running-on-ibm-z-ibm-power-and-arm64-architectures)

>   - [Intoduction](#intoduction)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Introduction](#intoduction)
```

Author: I need some spell checker, lol :)

    - [How to verify?](#how-to-verify)
  - [Deploy OpenShift cluster on IBM Power VS](#deploy-openshift-cluster-on-ibm-power-vs)
    - [Create IBM Power VS workspace](#create-ibm-power-vs-workspace)
    - [Download ccoctl, installer and oc utilities](#download-ccoctl-installer-and-oc-utilities)
    - [Create cluster installation manifests](#create-cluster-installation-manifests)
    - [Identity and access management](#identity-and-access-management)
    - [Deploy the cluster](#deploy-the-cluster)
  - [Install cert-manager on IBM Power VS](#install-cert-manager-on-ibm-power-vs)
    - [Review OLM resources](#review-olm-resources)
    - [Operator Installation with CLI](#operator-installation-with-cli)
  - [Certificate Management](#certificate-management)
    - [Create Self-signed CA Issuer](#create-self-signed-ca-issuer)
    - [Issue Certificate](#issue-certificate)
    - [Change ingress controller's default certificate](#change-ingress-controllers-default-certificate)
    - [Replace the CA bundle certificate](#replace-the-ca-bundle-certificate)
    - [See it in action](#see-it-in-action)
  - [Wrap Up](#wrap-up)
  - [Useful links](#useful-links)

> # Manage certificates on OpenShift running on IBM Z®, IBM Power® and ARM64 architectures.

Author: Another title could be

"Streamlining Certificate Management on OpenShift: Embracing Multi-Architecture Support with cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift"

## Intoduction

Kubernetes thrives on secure communication, but manually managing SSL/TLS certificates is a tangled mess and error-prone process, leading to outages, security vulnerabilities, and operational overhead.

The [cert-manager](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/security/cert_manager_operator/index.html) Operator for Red Hat OpenShift provides a secure and efficient solution for TLS certificate management in OpenShift Container Platform clusters, by introducing certificates and certificate issuers as primary resources in the Kubernetes API.  This _**'certificates as a service'**_ model seamlessly integrates with external certificate authorities, automating the entire certificate lifecycle, from provisioning to renewal, ensuring validity and timely updates.

> Now, with the latest update, the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift `v1.13.0` has undergone an expansion in its scope. Formerly confined to supporting solely on `AMD64` architecture, it now includes extended support for managing certificates on OpenShift across multiple architectures, including IBM Z® (`s390x`), IBM Power® (`ppc64le`), and `ARM64`. 

Reviewer: just comparing with the product doc norms that I use, should  it be simply 
`cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift 1.13.0` ?

Author: updated, removed ```` around the version number.

> Now, with the latest update, the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift `v1.13.0` has undergone an expansion in its scope. Formerly confined to supporting solely on `AMD64` architecture, it now includes extended support for managing certificates on OpenShift across multiple architectures, including IBM Z® (`s390x`), IBM Power® (`ppc64le`), and `ARM64`. 

Reviewer: just a suggestion, upto you.
```suggestion
Now, with the latest update, the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift `v1.13.0` has undergone an expansion in its scope. Formerly confined to `AMD64` architecture, it now includes extended support for managing certificates on OpenShift across multiple architectures, including IBM Z® (`s390x`), IBM Power® (`ppc64le`), and `ARM64`. 
```

Author: I think it emphasizes more on the improvement, so we can keep this phrase.

It's worth noting that comparable steps can be applied to other supported architectures. I've provided links to relevant documents for further reference.

So, let's begin!

## Multi-architecture container image

### What is it?
Multi-architecture container images represent a containerization strategy where a single container image is crafted to run seamlessly across various CPU architectures (e.g. x86, ARM, s390x, RISC-V) and sometimes operating systems (e.g., Linux, Windows). A common tag is used for the image, but the container runtime automatically selects the appropriate variant based on the target platform where you want to run the container, using manifests  that reference individual image variants for different platforms.

By using this approach, developers can deploy applications on a variety of hardware platforms without the hassle of reconstructing or handling individual images for each architecture, with increased efficiency and flexibility. 

### How to create?

> Now, creating a multi-arch container image has become straightforward using both [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-platform/) and [Podman](https://docs.podman.io/en/stable/markdown/podman-build.1.html). Like this:

Reviewer: You could reword it to something like below:

```suggestion
Now, creating a multi-arch container image has become straightforward using both [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-platform/) and [Podman](https://docs.podman.io/en/stable/markdown/podman-build.1.html). Here's the command:
```

Author: Updated

```shell
docker buildx build \
--platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 \
-t <registry>/<image>:<tag> \
--push .

> ```

Reviewer 2: Is it preferable to start each command line with the `$`?

Author: Thanks, I checked the guidelines, and it's recommended to use `$` for non-root commands and `#` for root commands. I'll update it.

  name: master
  platform: {}
  replicas: 3
credentialsMode: Manual
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: sandbox-cluster
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 192.168.18.0/24
  networkType: OVNKubernetes
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  powervs:
    powervsResourceGroup: sandbox-rg
    region: dal
    serviceInstanceID: abcd123-efgh456-qwer-sdf-864gsj123
    userID: IBMid-1234abcd
    zone: dal10
publish: External
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
```

By using this configuration, a cluster with 3 master and 3 worker nodes will be generated. If needed, feel free to customize the `install-config.yaml` file according to your requirements.

4. Generate the installation manifests files

And now we'll consume the previously created config file to generate the manifests files.

```shell
$ ./openshift-install create manifests --dir ./cluster-assets
```

You will notice several files have been generated within `./cluster-assets` directory, and all will be utilized during the cluster installation. I'm not going into detailed explanations of each file's usage at this point.

> ### Identity and access management

Reviewer: This name could start with an action like other headings. e.g. `Providing IAM`

Author: Updated to `Provide IAM roles`

```shell
oc get catalogsources redhat-operators -n openshift-marketplace
```

2. Within OLM, the `PackageManifest` is your operator's info card. It includes details such as the package name, available channels, source repository (Catalog Source), install modes, version details etc. which simplifies operator installation within your OpenShift cluster. Let's check the details for `openshift-cert-manager-operator` 

```shell
oc describe packagemanifest openshift-cert-manager-operator -n openshift-marketplace
```

Have you observed the labels? They provide information about the supported architectures and the source catalog.
```shell
oc get packagemanifest openshift-cert-manager-operator -n openshift-marketplace -o json | jq .metadata.labels
```

```json
{
  "catalog": "redhat-operators",
  "catalog-namespace": "openshift-marketplace",
  "hypershift.openshift.io/managed": "true",
  "operatorframework.io/arch.amd64": "supported",
  "operatorframework.io/arch.arm64": "supported",
  "operatorframework.io/arch.ppc64le": "supported",
  "operatorframework.io/arch.s390x": "supported",
  "operatorframework.io/os.linux": "supported",
  "provider": "Red Hat",
  "provider-url": ""
}

```

> Take a look at the defaultChannel.
> ```
> oc get packagemanifest openshift-cert-manager-operator -n openshift-marketplace -o json | jq .status.defaultChannel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take a look at the defaultChannel.
```shell
oc get packagemanifest openshift-cert-manager-operator -n openshift-marketplace -o json | jq .status.defaultChannel
```

Author: Thanks, done

  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  startingCSV: cert-manager-operator.v1.13.0
EOF
```

4. You may do a quick verification by following the commands and sample outputs:

```shell
oc get subscription -n cert-manager-operator
NAME                              PACKAGE                           SOURCE             CHANNEL
openshift-cert-manager-operator   openshift-cert-manager-operator   redhat-operators   stable-v1

oc get csv -n cert-manager-operator
NAME                            DISPLAY                                       VERSION   REPLACES                        PHASE
cert-manager-operator.v1.13.0   cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift   1.13.0    cert-manager-operator.v1.12.1   Succeeded

oc get pods -n cert-manager-operator
NAME                                                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-operator-controller-manager-695b4d46cb-r4hld   2/2     Running   0          7m4s

oc get pods -n cert-manager
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-58b7f649c4-dp6l4              1/1     Running   0          7m1s
cert-manager-cainjector-5565b8f897-gx25h   1/1     Running   0          7m37s

> cert-manager-webhook-9bc98cbdd-f972x       1/1     Running   0          7m40s

Reviewer: do you think it would help if these verification commands are broken down to highlight what to look out for while verifying?
e.g. in `oc get pods -n cert-manager` IIUC, we need to check for the presence of all 3 pods as well as the status `running`.

Author: yeah, that would be a plus to have. But I guess the sample output will be self-explanatory to compare with the actual output that the readers will have. 

There will be 4-5 more sentences if I'll break it :(

```

Well done! :clap:  The `openshift-cert-manager-operator` is now successfully installed in your cluster, and is prepared to handle certificate services. :rocket: 

> ## Certificate Management

Reviewer: is this just for a specific use case? if so, we could suffix this with `:Example`

Author: Added.

Now, with the latest update, the cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift 1.13.0 has undergone an expansion in its scope. Formerly confined to supporting solely on `AMD64` architecture, it now includes extended support for managing certificates on OpenShift across multiple architectures, including IBM Z® (`s390x`), IBM Power® (`ppc64le`), and `ARM64`. 

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/002-multi-arch+openshift+cm.png" alt>
  <em>Figure 1: cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift's robust support for multiple architectures.</em>
</p>

In this article, I'll briefly explore multi-arch container images before delving into the process of setting up an OpenShift cluster on IBM Power®. I'll then proceed to the cert-manager Operator installation on Power VS and demonstrate its use in certificate management. 

It's worth noting that comparable steps can be applied to other supported architectures. I've provided links to relevant documents for further reference.

So, let's begin!

## Multi-architecture container image

### What is it?

> Multi-architecture container images represent a containerization strategy where a single container image is crafted to run seamlessly across various CPU architectures (e.g. x86, ARM, s390x, RISC-V) and sometimes operating systems (e.g., Linux, Windows). A common tag is used for the image, but the container runtime automatically selects the appropriate variant based on the target platform where you want to run the container, using manifests  that reference individual image variants for different platforms.

Reviewer 3: `single container image`, probably replace with `reference to a unified container image`?
As technically each arch has it's own image but all of them just share a common image reference.

By using this approach, developers can deploy applications on a variety of hardware platforms without the hassle of reconstructing or handling individual images for each architecture, with increased efficiency and flexibility. 

### How to create?
Now, creating a multi-arch container image has become straightforward using both [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-platform/) and [Podman](https://docs.podman.io/en/stable/markdown/podman-build.1.html). Here's the command:

```shell

> $ docker buildx build \

Reviewer 3: Editorial folks would probably prefer `podman` over `docker` across all occurences. I was taking the RH content marketing learning series and which makes me feel this should be `podman` `podman` all over and docker as the alternative basically, not the other way round.

? SSH Public Key /home/sandbox/.ssh/id_rsa.pub                           <your ssh pub key>
? Platform powervs                                                       <select powervs>
? IBM Cloud User ID abc@example.com                                      <your ibm cloud id>
? Region dal                                                             <power vs workspace region>
? Zone dal10                                                             <power vs workspace zone : echo $DATACENTER>
? Service Instance abcd123-efgh456-qwer-sdf-864gsj123                    <power vs workspace guid : echo $WORKSPACE_ID>
? Resource Group sandbox-rg                                              <power vs workspace resource group : echo $RESOURCE_GROUP>
? Base Domain example.com                                                <the base domain to deploy the cluster to>
? Cluster Name sandbox-cluster                                           <your cluster name>
? Pull Secret *********                                                  <your openshift pull secret> 
```

After execution, the installation program will store the configuration in 
`./cluster-assets/install-config.yaml` file.

> You can view the contents by running `cat ./cluster-assets/install-config.yaml`, which will resemble like:

Reviewer 3: I would prefer adding a version number here, like `at the time of writing this we are using OpenShift Container Platfor v4.14` or something similar. Putting it here near install-config may or may not make sense depending upon how things change in future, but a good add about the OCP version number somewhere highlighted in text.

```yaml
additionalTrustBundlePolicy: Proxyonly
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
compute:
- architecture: ppc64le
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform: {}
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: ppc64le
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform: {}
  replicas: 3

> credentialsMode: Manual

Reviewer 3: Can you also mention in the text somewhere that the `ccoctl` steps are only because OpenShift on PowerVS mandatorily requires `Manual` credentialsMode (yes, only at the time of writing this.... as it can change in future maybe :).

You can use `oc whoami --show-server` command to get the correct cluster-domain.

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: ingress-wildcard-cert
  namespace: openshift-ingress
spec:
  isCA: false
  commonName: "*.apps.<cluster-domain>" # change me
  dnsNames:
    - "apps.<cluster-domain>"           # change me
    - "*.apps.<cluster-domain>"         # change me
  usages:
    - server auth
  issuerRef:
    kind: ClusterIssuer
    name: ca-issuer
  secretName: ingress-wildcard-tls
```
The relevant certificate will be created and stored in the `ingress-wildcard-tls` secret and this is the certificate which we all care about. :+1: 

### Change ingress controller's default certificate

Next, we'll update the `defaultCertificate` reference in the default `IngressController` CR by patching it to point to the new certificate secret.

```shell
$ oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
--type=merge -p \
'{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": "ingress-wildcard-tls"}}}' \
-n openshift-ingress-operator
```

Once the certificate is replaced, all applications, the web console and CLI, will be secured with the specified certificate for encryption.

> ### Replace the CA bundle certificate

Reviewer 3: This step is optional, right? You can mention this sub-section as Optional, if it absolutely is non-necessary.

Reviewer 3: Checking it out further, and the use case you want to add makes me feel this is essential and well non-optional. Then we should probably mention that this step is only necessary when using custom CA to manage the trusted certs inside OpenShift and that Internet CAs like the certs issued online can skip this step altogether.

...
*  issuer: CN=selfsigned-root-ca
*  SSL certificate verify ok.      # <- check this
...
```
Verify SSL authentication, cross-check both the `CN` (common name) and certificate start and expiration details. Ensure alignment with expectations, and rest assured, cert-manager will handle automatic certificate renewal :repeat: :dart: 

## Wrap Up

In this article, I walked you through the intricacies of managing certificates on OpenShift, emphasizing its compatibility across diverse architectures with the enhanced support of the cert-manager Operator in `v1.13.0`.

From deploying an OpenShift cluster on IBM Power Virtual Server (VS) to installing the cert-manager Operator, we explored a seamless end-to-end process. The practical side covered creating a Self-Signed CA Issuer, issuing a root certificate, and utilizing cert-manager for managing certificates in the default ingress controller for secure applications.

Awesome! I hope you found this guide both informative and actionable. If you have any questions or insights, feel free to share them in the comments. Happy coding! :rocket: :star2: 

And as promised, here are a few useful links for further reference:

## Useful links

> - https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/security/cert_manager_operator/index.html

Reviewer 3: Consider changing links `/4.14/` into `/latest/`, so those links automatically redirect you to latest OpenShift docs. WDYT
